Create UPGRADING.md (#1607)
cyberark/conjur: UPGRADING.md

# Upgrading

This section describes how to upgrade a Conjur Server.

## Standard Process

The following steps describe a standard upgrade of the Conjur server, when deployed
using Docker Compose. These steps assume you have defined your Conjur image in

> a service named `conjur`, and that you have access to the Conjur data key

Reviewer: The mention of Conjur data key is much more important than naming of `conjur` service
Can we put the spotlight on it? It can be confusing with API KEY I think we need to give here a link ([maybe from here](https://www.conjur.org/blog/loading-your-database-credentials-at-runtime-with-conjur/) or [here](https://github.com/cyberark/conjur/blob/1d2e0c3b01be7a91bb30381c4b895b0664801537/README.md#important-avoid-data-loss) ) to where we suggsted to store it, that it's a Base64-encoded 256 bit data encrytion key etc, without it - there is no upgrade

that was used when you originally deployed your Conjur server.

> 1. In your terminal window, set the `CONJUR_DATA_KEY` environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In local terminal session, set `CONJUR_DATA_KEY` environment variable:
```

   ```

>    export CONJUR_DATA_KEY={your Conjur data key}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   export CONJUR_DATA_KEY=<Conjur data key content>
```

   ```

1. Edit the Conjur image version in `docker-compose.yml` to reference the new
   version.

1. Pull the new Conjur image version:
   ```
   docker-compose pull conjur
   ```

1. Stop the Conjur container:
   ```
   docker-compose stop conjur
   ```

1. Bring up the Conjur service using the new image version without changing
   linked services:
   ```
   docker-compose up -d --no-deps conjur
   ```

1. View Docker containers and verify all are healthy, up and running:
   ```

>    docker ps -a

Reviewer: Suggest using `docker-compose` as we assum user does
`docker-compose ps -a`
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50704381/87643836-08615c00-c754-11ea-8f29-7840ef08853f.png)

   ```

   It may also be useful to check the logs of the Conjur

>    container to ensure that Puma started successfully, which can be done by

Reviewer: Don't know if we want to talk about Puma here, adding comlpexitiy

   running
   ```

>    docker logs conjur_server

Reviewer: In previous steps with refered to `conjur`, now it's `conjur_server` - as a conjur developer I know that this is the default values: `conjur` service name, `conjur_server` container name. For customer it might be confusing

`docker-compose logs conjur`

Sugessting to keep using `docker-compose` as:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50704381/87645294-f1236e00-c755-11ea-9abb-d3a7bef149e5.png)

   ```
   where `conjur_server` is defined as the `container_name` of the Conjur

>    service in the `docker-compose.yml`.

Reviewer: And those lines will be redundent

   

### Troubleshooting

If you run through the steps above _without_ setting the `CONJUR_DATA_KEY`

> environment variable first, you will be able to complete the steps successfully

Reviewer: Can we change "succesfully" to "without visible/explicit error message"

but the logs of the new Conjur container will show an error like:
```

> $ docker logs conjur_server

Reviewer: If we chose to use `docer-compose` please switch this example to the one above

rake aborted!
No CONJUR_DATA_KEY
...
```
`conjur_server` in the example command above is defined as the `container_name`

> of the `conjur` service in the `docker-compose.yml`.

Reviewer: Redundent in any case

> To fix this, set the `CONJUR_DATA_KEY` environment variable and run through

Reviewer: Maybe refer to first step?

the process again. This time when you check the logs of the Conjur server
container you should see the Puma service starting as expected:
```

> $ docker logs conjur_server

Reviewer: Maybe this command should be better? encapsulate with CLI
`docker-compose exec conjur conjurctl wait`

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50704381/87647657-229d3900-c758-11ea-9622-7f13d28df924.png)

Reviewer 2: I'm glad you suggested that! I use that command myself and was trying to find a way to work it in - I hesitated, because I'm not sure it works well enough when the server fails. I'll play around with it and see how it goes.

$ docker-compose logs conjur_server
...
=> Booting Puma
=> Rails 5.2.4.3 application starting in production 
=> Run `rails server -h` for more startup options
[10] Puma starting in cluster mode...
[10] * Version 3.12.6 (ruby 2.5.1-p57), codename: Llamas in Pajamas
[10] * Min threads: 5, max threads: 5
[10] * Environment: development
[10] * Process workers: 2
[10] * Preloading application
[10] * Listening on tcp://0.0.0.0:80
[10] Use Ctrl-C to stop
[10] - Worker 0 (pid: 26) booted, phase: 0
[10] - Worker 1 (pid: 30) booted, phase: 0
```

> ## Upgrade Issues

Reviewer 2: I imagine in the future we may have other custom upgrade instructions per version. Following the language we use in the PCF docs (as standardized by VMWare), can we call this instead:
```suggestion
## Version Specific Upgrade Instructions
```

### 1.8.0
**This step must be done when upgrading from version 1.7.4 and below to any
newer version.**

Starting in version 1.8.0, the hashing algorithm used to fingerprint and identify

> encryption keys was changed from MD5 to SHA256. This fingerprint is stored in

Reviewer: We want to add 
"from MD5 to a more secure SHA256" ?

# Upgrading

This section describes how to upgrade a conjur Server.

## Basic upgrade

The following steps should be done on each upgrade:
1. Edit `docker-compose.yml` conjur service image tag to {x+1}
2. Delete current conjur container: 
`docker rm -f conjur`
3. Rerun docker-compose:
`docker-compose up -d`
4. View docker containers and verify all are healthy, up and running:
 `docker ps -a`

* side note, it is possible you will need to reassign `CONJUR_DATA_KEY` system variable. Same key as before. 
`export CONJUR_DATA_KEY="$(< data_key)`

## Specific steps

> **This step should be done  when upgrading from version 1.7.2 and below to a newer version**

Author: @izgeri  just to make sure I understood correctly, also the version should be change to 1.8.0 or 1.7.2 is ok?

> **This step should be done  when upgrading from version 1.7.2 and below to a newer version**

Reviewer 2: I am assuming that the FIPS changes will be included in the next tag, and that we'll bump the minor version since we're adding functionality in a backwards compatible manner (following semver - see [here](https://semver.org/))

That would mean they'll be included in 1.8.0

> **This step should be done  when upgrading from version 1.7.2 and below to a newer version**

Author: that's for sure, what I meant should we say 'from 1.7.2 and below' or 'below version 1.8.0'?
what should be the correct term for this FYO?

> **This step should be done  when upgrading from version 1.7.2 and below to a newer version**

Reviewer 2: We could just make it say `Upgrading to 1.8.0`

> **This step should be done  when upgrading from version 1.7.2 and below to a newer version**

Author: what will happen if a user will upgrade from 1.7.0 to 1.8.1 or even 1.9.0 in the future?
I think it should be clear the any upgrade from a version before 1.8.0 should run this step.
WDYT?
@alexkalish @izgeri

> **This step should be done  when upgrading from version 1.7.2 and below to a newer version**

Reviewer 3: I think what you have is fine for now.

# Upgrading

This section describes how to upgrade a conjur Server.

## Basic upgrade

The following steps should be done on each upgrade:
1. Edit `docker-compose.yml` conjur service image tag to {x+1}
2. Delete current conjur container: 
`docker rm -f conjur`
3. Rerun docker-compose:
`docker-compose up -d`
4. View docker containers and verify all are healthy, up and running:
 `docker ps -a`

* side note, it is possible you will need to reassign `CONJUR_DATA_KEY` system variable. Same key as before. 
`export CONJUR_DATA_KEY="$(< data_key)`

## Specific steps

### 1.8.0

> **This step should be done  when upgrading from version 1.7.2 and below to a newer version**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**This step must be done when upgrading from version 1.7.2 and below to any newer version.**
```

Due to encryption changes in newer versions there is a need to run this command

> `bundle exec rake slosilo:migrate`

Reviewer 2: I adopted your text wholesale @alexkalish - I am going to assume no feedback is good feedback, in this case :)
